>> Everyone, welcome to the YouTube live stream, the podcast. And yeah, we'll kick it off.
Everyone out there in the audience, thanks for being here. Fantastic to have you. Please
ask questions and participate if you feel like it.
Pedya and Paul, Chris H. and Chris S., welcome to Talk Python to Me. It's great to have you
all here. >> Good to be here.
>> Thanks for joining us, Michael. >> Yeah, absolutely. Happy to be doing it.
I think talking about documentation and all the static site stuff and book generation
stuff that we're going to talk about is going to be super fun.
You all are at the center of various fulcrums of that throughout the ecosystem.
So it's great to have you here.
Great to be talking about that stuff.
So let's just start really quick with a quick introduction and then what you're up to these
days.
Paul, you're a regular here, so you want to go first?
Sure, i'm paul everett. I'm a jet brains developer advocate
uh
big fan of the show
A big fan total fanboy of the other three people here. I've got all kinds of stories about
where I was when I found out about mist and the parser and
and uh
Desperately wishing I could join prattian and all the things that he's doing and I will add
big, big fan of Carol Willing. When I grew up, I wanted to be Carol Willing.
- Fantastic. And you're still with JetBrains? - Still with JetBrains, yeah.
- Right on. Keeping the PyCharm flowing. Right on. Prajyan, how about you?
- I work at Bloomberg, although not what I'm going to talk about today is related to work.
Software engineer there. Work on the Python infrastructure team. I am a maintainer on pip.
I have written a Sphinx theme or two,
depending on how you count the second one.
I'm involved in a bunch of
various efforts around Sphinx at this point.
I've made myself comfortable in
these spaces and made my way into
the various discussion forums, I guess.
>> Yeah, fantastic.
>> With me, I guess, in this topic.
>> Awesome.
>> You seem to be the emergency maintainer of
many open source projects like live reload.
- Yeah, I have a mild issue of not knowing when to stop.
- That's good, all right, Chris H.
- Yeah, so my name is Chris Holgref.
I'm the director of the International Interactive
Computing Collaboration or 2i2c,
which is a nonprofit that runs cloud infrastructure
for interactive computing and the Jupyter ecosystem
and the surrounding ecosystem alongside of it
for our research and education communities.
My background is largely in the Jupyter ecosystem.
I've worked a lot on JupyterHub,
which serves multiple Jupyter sessions
via some kind of centralized cloud infrastructure.
I also work a lot on the Binder project,
which focuses on more scientific reproducibility
and shareable computing environments
in a cloud agnostic and pretty flexible manner.
- Yeah, that's fantastic.
For people who don't know about Minder,
that's basically if you were on a GitHub repo
or some published notebook that's not interactive,
you can click that and it'll fire up a little environment
where you can go and explore the notebook for real, right?
- Yep, yeah, exactly.
And so a lot of these things are kind of surrounding
this general topic of scientific communication,
scientific reproducibility,
bringing those kind of data workflows
and facilitating them with software development,
which is related to a lot of the stuff
we're talking about today as well.
- Yeah, fantastic.
You also have worked on the Mist project, right?
- Yes, yeah, and one of the projects
that I'm focusing on right now,
along with Chris S. and a few other collaborators
is called the Executable Books Project.
And this is basically an attempt
at improving the state of open source
kind of community-driven tools in the Python ecosystem
around scientific communication
and building a lot on top of the Sphinx ecosystem
because there's a lot of good material there to work with
and a lot of improvements that can be made
that'll benefit the broader Python community as well.
- Yeah, yeah, very cool.
Looking forward to talking about JupyterBook as well.
That'll be fun.
Chris Sewell, you're back.
Tell us about yourself.
- Yes, sorry, I was hearing double of everything
(laughs)
and I was like, "What the heck is going on?"
And then I realized I had the YouTube tab open
as well in the background.
So I was hearing-- - You were your own
audience member.
Yes, this is not a good feeling.
Yeah, exactly, I was like, what is going on here?
Okay, anyway, let's not travel over.
So yeah, so I work in the executive of books.
I guess, essentially, my kind of focus
is on providing, making the best tools for scientists
to make open, reproducible science.
So I work 50% of the time here in Switzerland at EPFL
on a package called ANL, which is a Python workflow engine
for running simulations, orchestrating simulations.
And then I work the other 50% of the time
in executable books on Mist and JupyterBook.
- Yeah, oh, that's really fantastic.
Is any of your work in Switzerland,
does it have to do with CERN or other projects?
- No, not to do with CERN.
It's at EPFL in a group on materials discovery.
- Yeah, fantastic.
Quick pause, your mic is Bluetooth, right?
It sounds like it's getting a lot of appearance.
Could you just like turn the Bluetooth off
and turn it back on and then just we'll keep going?
I think that'll probably clear it up.
All right, well, let's start by talking about Sphinx,
I think.
So when I think about Sphinx,
I think about Python documentation.
So who wants to sort of set the stage for Sphinx?
I mean, I guess it does say
the Python documentation generator,
but it does more than that as well, if you want it to.
So guys, what is Sphinx?
When do I use this?
What's its value?
It's been around for a long time.
- Let's do a round table.
I'd love to hear everyone's elevator pitch.
- Yeah, exactly.
What's the elevator pitch for Sphinx?
- I mean, I can start with sort of how I got into Sphinx
and then maybe how I use Sphinx now,
which is a little bit different
from how I initially used it.
I think that a lot of people,
so Sphinx has been around for a really long time,
and it's a really powerful tool for documentation.
And a lot of people use it alongside
of their software projects that they work on.
So my first introduction to Sphinx was via,
it was actually a neuroscience analytics package
called MNE Python.
And we needed documentation to describe,
you know, the APIs and the functions and the classes
and things like use cases and examples.
And so one of the really useful things about Sphinx
is that it has an inherent extensibility
and a lot of flexibility
so that you can both generate
like narrative documentation with it,
but also include programmatically generated documentation,
API documentation, and that kind of thing.
So it lets you kind of like more seamlessly
merge together code documentation
or documentation embedded within code
and your more kind of traditional narrative examples,
tutorials, that kind of a thing.
- I see, almost like a Wiki plus
an API documentation generator in one.
- Yeah, plus that's been around for a long time
and with an inherent extensibility.
So a lot of different sub communities have kind of built out
their own community specific documentation
that builds on top of the kind of basic
Sphinx building blocks.
- Sure, I bet the scientific community
has got a lot of specializations.
They're like, we need to be able to express stuff
like this, right?
Well, so that kind of gets me to the second part
of what I was gonna describe, which is I think over time,
and this is one of the inspirations
behind JupyterBook to some degree,
is the realization that like technical
and API documentation is also really useful.
Well, I should say the things you need to build
for really good technical and API documentation
are really useful for other kinds of use cases as well.
And so I saw some other groups in the scientific ecosystem.
really interesting one called Sympeg, which I think is just S-I-M-P-E-G dot X-Y-Z. I'm pretty
sure that's what it is. And they basically built out a whole geospatial analytics tutorial and
documentation resource just built on Sphinx. And so for me, seeing that, it kind of unlocked an
aha moment in my head to realize that you could also use the same documentation engine for
documenting lots of other things, not just software packages and things like that. Technical
is quite generic and overlaps quite a lot
with like scientific documentation
and scholarly documentation.
And so that's the space that we've been exploring
over the last couple of months and years.
- Yeah, fantastic.
And a lot of the outputs are super flexible.
It outputs HTML, which you might host on somewhere
like Read the Docs or Netlify, but also LaTeX,
which is really important for publications
and EPUB or eBooks and whatnot.
So pretty cool.
Chris, what's your elevator pitch?
Chris S, sorry, gotta keep disambiguating you all.
(laughing)
Hey Chris, I'm sorry, but your audio
has gotten a lot worse.
Is there maybe, maybe try to cycle it or something
and I'll ask Fred and then we'll come back to you.
- Sure.
(indistinct)
I think Sphinx is documentation generator written in Python,
primarily intended for technical documentation
with the ability to sort of intertwine
narrative documentation with auto-generated documentation
that picks up things from your code, right?
And this whole thing is combined with the ability
to have a variety of output formats
as well as a variety of extension points
within the tooling to extend basically every aspect
of building that documentation.
- Interesting, yeah, so for example,
testing the code snippets that you might have
in your documentation or doc strings
or something like that maybe.
- Yep, so that is doc test and that's baked into Sphinx
and Python's documentation,
which happens to all be written in Sphinx.
- Okay, interesting.
- Or written by Sphinx.
So yeah, there's a lot of this,
there's a lot of capability and power
hidden underneath the shell of Sphinx.
And as Chris was mentioning,
there's really extensive customizability here
that you can then take and specialize it
to your specific use cases.
And that's sort of both the power and,
you know, there's a con to that,
which is, hey, you gotta maintain this
and you gotta keep this functioning and stuff.
But yeah, it's a really powerful
documentation generation tool
that is perhaps a little too powerful for its own good.
(laughing)
- Very good, very good.
Yeah, so docs.python.org is generated by Sphinx, huh?
- Yes.
- Fantastic.
All right, Chris, let's go back to you.
Sorry about that.
- How does it sound, man?
- Fantastic, yeah, you're great.
- Okay, I ditched the headphones.
Yeah, I think the other point that I wanted to touch on
is one of the brilliant points there on the Sphinx site
is the cross-referencing capability
is just second to none.
You know, you can reference in a page,
you can reference cross-page within your own documentation,
but also, and one of the things
that's really helped to build on Sphinx
is the read the docs community and the work they're doing
so that you can reference any other site
that's built on Read the Docs as well
in a really nice way.
- Yeah, that's something that really surprised me
when I learned about Sphinx is,
give a quick shout out to Paul.
Paul wrote a course that we hosted over on Talkbyline,
generating static sites with Sphinx and Markdown,
which is really, really cool.
And one of the things that surprised me
is when I think about creating multiple pages,
so for example, if I'm on GitHub and I wanna have
this part of some readme here,
point to some other readme or some other markdown,
I just go in there, I type,
here's the relative path over to that thing,
and I come up with the text that goes there.
Sphinx allows you to have kind of an index
into all the sub-elements of the page,
not just the pages, but parts of the pages,
headers and whatnot, and you can link to them
by name, right?
And so if for some reason you change the title of a header,
your a tag text that you are linking to will change,
which is pretty awesome, right?
- Exactly, yeah.
- Yeah, and also intersphinx, right?
Which is a way to expose those endpoints,
not as endpoints, those index points
across domain or across project, right?
So I could reference to something on Python
in my documentation, specifically by a reference point,
not by a URL, which is pretty excellent.
- And I think that's a big part of why Sphinx
is as adopted as it is,
of like the fact that InterSphinx exists
and the fact that you can very easily cross-reference
bits in other parts of the ecosystem,
as long as that part of the ecosystem is in Sphinx,
or at least as the interspinx file generator, right?
In theory, other ecosystems could,
or other tooling could generate it as well.
But yeah, I think that is quite capable
if the fact that it's in restructured text
has some fun interactions
with all the linking syntaxes that exist,
but it's genuinely very powerful, as I said, so.
- Yeah, so let's talk about that for a little bit,
Because when I thought about Sphinx originally,
I always thought about restructured text.
And restructured text is, it's kind of funky.
I don't know, I just have a hard time getting used to it.
But, you know, all those formats and whatnot,
it takes some getting used to, right?
You've got, let me see if I can find an example
and pull up here.
You know, things like dot dot image, colon colon,
some other thing, and then you're sort of almost
like a YAML style.
And to me, when I'm writing, I feel like, wow,
I would just much rather write Markdown and just
blaze through this and write it nice and clean.
And I'm willing to give up a little formatting or something
to allow me to live in a simpler world that
doesn't require so much stuff.
So traditionally, restructured text
has been the way of the documentation through Sphinx.
It's also been like the way that you put your information
on PyPI and describe it there, right?
But the PyPI.org version moved over
to at least support Markdown
and through some of the work y'all are doing,
Sphinx now has an integration layer
with doing everything in Markdown as well, right?
You wanna talk about that maybe?
- Yeah, I think so.
As Prasad mentioned,
Sphinx is just incredibly powerful,
but it's trying to harness that power
and make it not overwhelming to kind of non-technical users.
For people who want it, it's brilliant,
and you can do everything under the sun,
but trying to sell it to the masses, as it were,
and trying to make it as easy to use as possible
for simple use cases,
but then having that extensibility there
is I guess kind of what we've been looking at
in the executive books.
And with this, with the markdown,
most everyone now knows about markdown,
common mark, how to--
- Right, we've got GitHub and Stack Overflow
have basically forced the software development community
to understand it, right?
- Exactly, for whether people love it or hate it,
it's there and you know it.
So being able to just copy and paste things
from your GitHub or Stack Overflow
or just write something that's quite intuitive to write.
That's what we're really trying to get at,
trying to hide almost some of the intricacies of Sphinx,
making more user-friendly on the front end.
- Okay, great.
What do you guys got to add to this restructured text
markdown duality here?
- I think it's an interesting duality.
And I missed my, I don't know how to say this.
I find this, when I first discovered this,
I was really fascinated 'cause I was like,
hey, this looks cool.
This looks like a really good,
I found it especially amusing to see how
Mist, let's pick one phrasing, I guess.
I really liked how Mist ends up reconciling
the complexity or power, depending on how you look at it,
of Sphinx and sort of fitting that into Markdown and not,
and having it still look like it belongs there, right?
'Cause there's a whole bunch of, well, directives, roles,
or whatever you wanna call them,
that, well, you can use to manipulate the text
and include things and have those extensible points.
- Right, because Markdown is not nearly sophisticated
enough to handle things like inter-Sphinx
and these other types of constructs that's in Sphinx, right?
- Yes, so like one example of this would be the ability
to have the cards that you're showing
on the screen at the moment, right?
Like the closest thing you can do for that
in Markdown would probably be embed a bunch of HTML.
- Yeah, yeah, batter tables
when you get basically no styling there,
like it's not cards, it's all jammed together in a table.
But yeah.
- Yeah, and even when you have the ability
to have inline sort of markup
of markup that's in the same line
as the paragraph that you're writing in,
you have a very limited set of those, right?
Like bold, italics, underlines, maybe strikes
if the platform you're using supports it and stuff like that.
But with Mist or Restructured Text or whatever,
you have a lot more capability there.
>> Yeah.
>> You impart to Sphinx,
you impart to DocuTools which is what implements the Restructured Text.
>> Format?
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Markup language.
>> Sure. On this particular point of the power expressing itself into Markdown,
I've enjoyed watching Chris and Chris over the years iterate through this.
Roll some things out, realize, wait, you know, it's better in tooling
if we do a triple colon instead of a triple back tick
because the body of the directive can then be rendered
by some inline viewer or something.
So I'd be interested in hearing Chris and Chris talk a little bit
about your voyage of discovery for, you know,
What's the gestalt of Markdown?
- So, yeah, it's interesting.
So obviously, well, with JupyterBook and things,
we're very much focused on, you know,
in these, in Jupyter notebooks,
you have the Markdown cells,
everything is written in Markdown,
and that historically has a single kind of renderer
that renders things.
So trying to harness the simplicity of Markdown
and trying to make it look nice as you're writing
and it doesn't look like a complete mess
within these Markdown cells,
whilst still having the capabilities
of like a restructured text
has been an interesting challenge.
So obviously we had this,
we wanted to make the missed format kind of degradable
to Common Mark so that it can be passed normally
as with a normal markdown parser,
although it wouldn't know what to do with things like notes
and all these other directives and roles
that you can have within Sphinx.
But at the same time, yeah, have all the capabilities.
So it's a hard balancing act, I'd say.
I'm trying to just say,
here's all of these roles and directives.
- You don't want to spoil the simplicity
of Markdown though, right?
- It's, yeah, exactly.
It's having the readability of the source text, essentially,
weighing that against the flexibility
of actually making these lovely HTML pages.
- Right, exactly.
Chris H., you want to add something to that?
- Yeah, I mean, I think that the interesting thing
about Markdown and probably something that we should clarify
for some of the people here is that there is no one Markdown.
- Yes, that surprised me, I didn't know like that.
- Yeah, I mean, there's like, you know Markdown
when you see it, but there is no like canonical Markdown.
The closest thing to a standard that exists
is common Markdown, which is like an attempted
standardization across a few different communities.
But over the years, what we've seen,
whether it's Stack Overflow or GitHub or whatever,
basically people want to extend Common Mark
in a couple of ways.
So they add in a new couple of syntax features to support,
and they have then created a new flavor of Markdown.
So people often talk about Markdown in terms of flavors,
like what functionality do you want to turn on?
What functionality do you want to turn off?
And there are a couple of nice like renders and parsers,
and for example, the JavaScript world that will let you
enable extensions in Markdown to turn on and off different kinds of syntax.
And so what's interesting about Mist is that
it's intentionally trying to create a privileged extension point,
either for block-level writing or for inline writing,
in part with the goal that you don't have to create a new flavor of Markdown
if you want to extend Markdown's functionality in a new direction.
And I think it's going to create an interesting question of,
"Okay, you've created a new extension point,
but you want to have some kind of reliability or knowledge
that your document's going to behave the same
in one implementation of a missed render
or a missed parser versus another implementation."
So there's an extra sort of interesting standards question
of, okay, if a directive is infinitely extensible, right?
It's basically like a Python function, but in Markdown,
is there some like minimal subset of directives
that you want to support as a part of core mist,
so that if it's a mist parser for Sphinx
or a mist parser for an HTML website
or for some other documentation engine,
that you know that they'll behave similarly.
- That is a big challenge.
A quick question from the audience.
Ryan asked, does GitHub use their own version
or do they use Common Mark?
- They use GitHub flavored markdown, G-F-M.
(laughing)
- Which is a super set of Common Mark?
- Yes. - It is indeed, yes.
It's got, it now has, I mean, I think if you can Google it,
I guess, GitHub, open markdown,
it has its own specification,
which is built on top of the Common Mark specification.
- And it's different as well.
- Yeah, yeah, and it adds a few extensions,
a few slightly different things, but like tables.
- Right.
- Funnily enough, it's not in Common Mark,
which is quite a basic thing, but that is not in Common Mark.
That's only in GitHub flavored markdown.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, Common Mark was avoiding the politics of what it got to get it to where it got.
There was a decent amount of, "Oh, this has to be maximally compliant.
Like, this has to be the thing that works everywhere."
- A minimum functionality, the maximum reach sort of story, right?
Yeah, and they sort of went, okay, what works basically everywhere?
And that's sort of what ended up becoming Common Mark.
So any effort to like, oh, how about we extend this
has sort of not gone very well so far.
Sure.
So I do want to give a quick shout out to this app I came across recently
called Typora for writing Markdown.
And one of the things I think is interesting, the reason I'm bringing it up is it has
the standard Markdown stuff, but it also has like inline bits for like
mathematics and other stuff like diagrams and whatnot. And this is the kind of stuff you're
talking about, Chris, right? Where you want to take the core, but there's ways to extend it in
Mist, right? - Yeah, I mean, that's the beauty of Python, right? Or a lot of languages where you can
define functions is that you can show a lot more creativity and add extra functionality
in a very intentional, structured way, right?
So that it's easier for you to replicate other people's work
and build on top of it and things like that.
And so in some ways,
that's how I think about directives and roles
is it's like bringing functions,
but into a realm where you're dealing with like
human written text or code that is like interpreted,
but inside of, you know,
these little directives and things like that,
which just opens up a lot of extra room for creativity
and trying out different kinds of things.
- I guess because we're gonna mention this a bunch,
in sort of Sphinx glossary or terminology,
directives are essentially a block of text
that you're all saying.
It also has this characteristic associated with it.
Like, hey, present this in like a notebox or whatever.
Whereas a role would probably be something in line,
like, hey, make this bold,
or hey, this is actually a link to another thing
and stuff like that.
in case folks who are listening aren't familiar,
this would probably be helpful.
Although I wish we had said this sooner.
- Yeah, coming from the front end world,
I'm a kind of a refugee from Gatsby,
in which Markdown is almost like a database format,
large structure.
But when it comes to Markdown and extension points
and things like that, oh my God,
the monkey business they jump through
to try and get information from the document
to the extension point or whatever.
And they all have to invent their own little mechanism
for packing stuff into the space
after the code fence invocation.
It's just clearly obvious that they need something
like what Myst has done, which is a consistent syntax
that just hands things over to restructured text directives.
Right, yeah, I think that's--
Yeah, go ahead.
- I was just gonna say, I think that the,
I think what's interesting about Sphinx and Docutils
is that intermediate document model that exists,
which I think is something that differentiates it
from a lot of other like markdown parsers and renders
that are out there.
I think a lot of the, like a lot of static website generators
they're effectively going from blobs of Markdown
mapped onto blobs of HTML as a sort of like heuristic,
like it's a very programmatic output kind of a thing.
And actually the original version of JupyterBuck
maybe like two and a half years old now,
it was a wrapper around Jekyll,
the Jekyll website generator.
But because Jekyll was fundamentally just doing,
you know, blobs of Markdown to blobs of HTML,
there wasn't that intermediate rich document representation
where you can do things like resolve cross-references
and collect bibliographic entries
and collect equation and figure labels
so that you can refer to them elsewhere.
And once you add that extra model in,
it gives you a lot of extra,
I think that's where a lot of that extra power
and complexity comes from in the Sphinx ecosystem.
And so in some ways, missed markdown is just like,
it's almost like a front end on a user side.
It's just giving you, at least in my opinion,
a more user-friendly entry point into the Sphinx ecosystem.
- Now, most times you just wanna write straight markdown,
but every now and then you need something
like one of these references over to another part
of the site, or you need more control.
And so Mist has this ability to say,
kind of like run some inline restructured text here, right?
that as well as the ability to just hook into the thing
that restructured text would, right?
So that would be the directive.
So you can embed restructured text in line,
but that's usually not what you need to do or want to do.
Usually you're just able to directly use the thing
that you wanted to use.
So yeah, there you go.
- Okay, so you would go and write some Python code
to process one of these directives,
that's pretty excellent.
- Yeah, and a bunch of these directives exist already
in, well, Sphinx, essentially.
And you can just reuse them as you would
in restructured text in Mist,
except with a slightly different syntax
because you're operating in a different markup language now.
- Sure.
- Yeah, so, sorry.
So the terminology they use is interpreted text.
So it's just a block of text,
and here's the name of the class function
that is gonna interpret this.
And here's maybe some options to help it interpret it.
And then it can do what it wants with it.
- Nice.
So does MISC come with a bunch of these extensions already
that you can use like for maybe like scientific graphs
or things like that that you can pull in?
Or where do I find more of these
if I don't wanna write them myself?
- So one of the goals of the Jupyter book project
is trying to bring in functionality
from the Jupyter ecosystem
around interactive computational document models,
like IPy and the Jupyter notebook files,
and also kernels that can run arbitrary,
usually data centric code for visualizations
analysis and things like that, where those code will generate outputs like PNG images or HTML,
interactive visualizations or tables with statistical analyses in them and that sort of
stuff. And so one of the goals of the executable books project is also to build sort of entry
points for the Jupyter ecosystem into Sphinx and into Mist Markdown. So you can kind of get the
complexity of the PyData ecosystem or the R ecosystem or the Julia ecosystem,
but with the ability to embed that into a documentation narrative structure as well.
So I think that's where a lot of the scientific use cases come from, is using scientific code
that gets executed alongside of your documentation build in a programmatic fashion, and where those
outputs of the code are then inserted into your document in a way that, from a reader's perspective,
looks like it's just part of the narrative flow of everything else that was there.
Right, that's fantastic. So maybe tell people a bit about the JupyterBook project itself.
It's an open source project for building beautiful publication quality books and documentation,
as you said, from sort of taking the code in the notebook and generating the output,
like some of the graphs and whatnot, in a live way. But it sounds fascinating. Maybe,
when would I use it? Tell people a bit about that.
Yeah, I mean, I think that the simplest, I mean, from a technical standpoint, since we're kind of
riffing off of Sphinx, JupyterBook is a distribution of Sphinx. It's basically a collection of
pre-configured Sphinx extensions, some of which are developed by the executable books team and
community, others of which have been developed by the broader Sphinx community and that are just
reused and contributed upstream to by people in executive books. And those extensions have been
chosen to sort of all feed into this use case of scientific and technical documentation. So things
like Sphinx Contrib BibTeX is a bibliography and citation extension in Sphinx. And that's
activated automatically with Jupyter book. - Right on. Because of course you're gonna need
that. And you want something like Evernote that's gonna pull from some source that's always,
like I always quote this article or something, right?
Yeah, I mean, just, you know, it's like a, it's a use case that's not built into core Sphinx,
like having references and citations and bibliographies. And so it pulls that
workflow into Sphinx via an extension. So JupyterBook is kind of a collection of these extensions,
and then wrapped in a command line interface and a configuration structure that's a little bit more
user friendly. I think that's one of the things about Sphinx is that at least historically,
it has tended to be both developed by and catered to the developer community,
which is a little bit different from the scientific community. A lot of scientists
know just enough code to be dangerous with, myself included, and are often not as familiar
with traditional software development workflows. And so things like JupyterBook is configurable
with a YAML file rather than with, in Sphinx, the default configuration is with a conf.py file.
So a little quality of life improvements
to make it a little bit easier for people to get started
with this more opinionated distribution of Sphinx.
- Yeah, sounds like a, yeah,
what a fascinating resource for people.
And I meant EndNote, not Evernote, sorry.
That's the one used for references.
There's some good questions in the audience
I wanna ask you all, but before we do,
I wanna ask about Mist just a little bit more.
So Mist looks really interesting
and it looks like it allows me to do much more,
many more powerful things with Markdown
than just straight Markdown.
Right now for when I'm in my code, like say on the website,
it might have to take some Markdown content
and turn it into a page or something.
I'm just using something like Markdown 2
or one of the arbitrary just Markdown parsers.
Does this make sense as something to run
sort of live in your application
rather than a publication generation story?
Like, would it make sense to replace just using that,
that one function from that library
and then allow me to write like directives
that do more for the site, for example?
- Not exactly sure what you're asking.
- Well, I think what Michael wants is the layer under Mist.
- Yeah, probably.
- There is a parser inspired by,
I guess the JavaScript parser written by Chris and Chris.
It was actually the way I found Mist
when I was looking at Mistune and Mistletoe.
And so, yes, there's a wonderful parser
that lets you hand it strings and you get back markdown.
- Yeah.
You hand it markdown and you get HTML, you mean?
- Sorry, yeah.
- Yeah, that's what I want.
- You get HTML. - Yeah, yeah, exactly.
What I want is a nice way to have richer markdown
in an application, in production,
not just as something that I run,
like a build process against?
- So there's a bunch of, I guess, parsers for Mist.
There's an implementation in Python.
There's an implementation in JavaScript.
If-- - Yeah, work in progress.
- I don't know, so I take that as a yes.
So yeah, there's multiple implementations of that
and you can integrate that into an application
if you wanted to.
- So I think this is where we're working
on this kind of Mist specification of what would be core Mist, as in what can we parse
not just in Sphinx, but with other kinds of parsers, and you say embed it into applications.
So one of the things we've been working on, say, is this JavaScript application for Mist.
And one of the nice things, firstly, about how we use Mist with Sphinx in the Python
world is that it uses Markdown.py, which is a Python implementation of Markdown.ip, which
is a JavaScript package for passing Markdown.
So on both sides, in Python and in JavaScript, we can use exactly the same, essentially,
exactly the same code, pass exactly the same.
So then we're working on this markdown
at docuTils in JavaScript to see if we can bring
as much of the functionality,
probably not all of the functionality of Sphinx
into also the JavaScript world,
where obviously that's what you need
if you wanna be able to do anything kind of live
without a backend or anything.
- Runtime, yeah.
- Okay, exciting to hear you all are working on it.
All right, let's bring this maybe back
to the documentation side.
Right now the audience asks,
could we describe the whole process
that a missed document goes through
before it becomes an HTML document?
Like sort of what happens to my inputs
to get either the HTML or the EPUB or whatever I get?
- Okay, so essentially,
So you have your markdown text file.
Markdown, we then pass it,
as I just mentioned, with markdown in Py,
which turns it into a bunch of syntax tokens.
And then we take them tokens
and we convert them into the docutils_ast syntax tree,
which is what Sphinx works with.
So, and then as we're converting that
into the DocuTils AST,
the Sphinx works with,
we're running all of these directives and these roles,
this interpreted text against all of the functions,
the extensions within the,
been loaded within Sphinx.
And we end up with this nice syntax tree,
a Python thing with nodes.
And then we say to Sphinx, there you go, take it away.
- Traditionally Sphinx has gone through
some sort of restructured text process to generate that.
And you're like, we're gonna generate that
and give it to you in a different way.
Now just do what you do to generate your documentation.
- Exactly, so once you've passed it through this mist,
or you've done restructured text,
you end up with exactly the same thing.
This syntax tree with nodes,
and then Sphinx can go for that,
and that's kind of agnostic to any kind of output format.
That's just, here's a paragraph,
and then within that, here's some text,
and here's a bit of bold and a bit of italic.
- Right, right, right.
Cool.
- And then, which, looping this back around
to what we mentioned at the start,
of like, the power of Sphinx, right?
the extensibility of it is that the markup format that you're writing with is decoupled
from anything else that you do with it. Not the extensions, not the directives that you use,
none of that. They're all sort of a separate step from that. And that getting that separation
happens through the intermediate documentary or doc tree, which if anyone's worked with Sphinx
has probably seen mentions of in the build directory and stuff. So yeah, Doctry sort
of acts as that separator.
- Oh, fantastic.
- So you go from your input text to your Doctry, then to your output formats, HTML, LaTeX,
et cetera. And on the way, you mess around with all the Doctry to make sure you've got
document references and all this kind of thing.
- Little known fact, if you go to SourceForge
and look at Docutils, you'll see that they,
from the very beginning have anticipated
restructured text not being the only format.
Restructured text is just one,
it happens to be the default parser,
but it wasn't intended to be the only parser.
Yeah, Bob.
A lot of what we've been discussing is things that Sphinx does.
Sphinx for sort of the most part is really a good wrapper around a lot of what DocuDocs
provides.
It's a much more friendly package in my opinion to interact with.
Generally, in some senses,
JupyterBooks wraps Sphinx into a nicer package to use.
Sphinx does that for DocuTools.
It builds upon it to give you additional functionality,
it gives you additional points to hook into
in the build process that you would still have with DocuTools.
It's clearly not doing anything in the build process,
in addition to what DocuTools would,
it just gives you a better framework to do that.
And a lot of what we've been talking about
of like that intermediate format and stuff,
those are all concepts coming up
from DocuTools into Sphinx.
- Yeah, very interesting.
Alvaro out there asks,
"Can we use the AST to translate
between markup languages?"
Something like Pandoc, which is a pretty neat thing.
It sounds like that might already work.
You've got the different output formats
and stuff already, right?
Yeah, so an interesting example of this actually is
there's a little helper tool that Chris wrote
as a part of the executable books project
called RST to Mist.
And essentially it's a converter
if you have a bunch of documentation
written in restructured text
and you want to automatically convert it into Mist Markdown.
Because Mist Markdown and restructured text
have the same like fundamental vocabulary,
they just have different syntaxes
that map onto that, you know, docutils doc tree.
you can go from one to the other relatively easily.
And that's what the RST to Mist package does.
It parses RST into these abstract tokens,
and then it can render those tokens as a Mist markdown
rather than restructured text.
And that's because of that sort of intermediate
document format that's there.
I think what Pandoc has is like this huge library
of rules, basically, of how do you go
from these abstract tokens into like a billion
different output formats.
And that sort of speaks to the community of the Pandoc world
that's been around for quite a long time
and is doing a lot of really awesome work there too.
- Yeah, indeed.
All right, let's bring it back to Sphinx a little bit.
I know you all wanted to give a quick shout out to Juan
about some of the tutorials that he created, right?
- Absolutely.
- Yeah, so go ahead.
- Sure, I guess I'll do it.
So one of the things that Sphinx,
as we've been talking about, has,
it has a documentation site, right?
And it is a documentation generator,
but it didn't have a tutorial to get you started.
So that's one of the things that Juan worked on recently.
And I think a bunch of that work
is actually piggybacking off of Rigdedocs
getting funding from CZI, Charn Zuckerberg Initiative,
as an essential open source software.
I think it's under the EOSS program,
but I could be wrong on that.
And yeah, he worked on a tutorial for Sphinx
that, well, introduces people to Sphinx essentially,
and, well, tells you what your first steps
to document your project using Sphinx would be.
- Yeah, very cool.
It sounds certainly useful to have, right?
Like the API documentation is not enough
to make it feel really great.
All right, so the next thing I wanna talk a bit about
with Sphinx is sort of the look and feel side of things.
Right?
(laughing)
- Can I really quickly make a plug actually?
- Yeah, yeah, absolutely, go for it.
- I think that one of the other reasons that like one,
for example, has been contributing some of the improvements
to the Sphinx documentation is that like Sphinx
is pretty old in computer science world and technology world.
It's like an ancient technology, you know,
that's like eight years old or something like that.
And I think that one of--
- More than that.
- DocuDocs and Python.
- Yeah, that's true.
That's like the early, early days of Python.
So anyway, my point is that I think that
the documentation about Sphinx
has been around for a long time,
but I think that the community's understanding
of like what makes for good documentation
has evolved quite a lot in the last like 15 years.
There's just more expectations
around different kinds of documentation
that you expect to find embedded in one place.
I put a link in the YouTube comments
for a really interesting framework
that's been gaining some traction lately
called the Diataxis framework.
But this idea that you sort of cleanly separate out
like tutorials and how-to examples
and reference documentation and explanations,
that's just one example.
But I think that like there's,
the community has sort of evolved and made more complex
its own idea of what makes for good documentation
in some ways faster than a lot of these Python packages that have been around for decades,
in some cases, have kept up with that pace.
And so I think there's a lot of low hanging fruit to improve a lot of these aspects by
making contributions to Sphinx stocks and other pieces of the ecosystem.
Yeah, absolutely.
If I can make an addition to your addition, one of the things I think of Sphinx as is
I think of it as a miracle.
It's an underappreciated miracle.
They crank out bug fix updates with long lists of features and bugs fix and all over and
over for year after year.
They don't get to go do Greenville development.
They're still stuck in Python 2.3 land or something like that.
They've got this main template which was written back when Mark Andreessen was still in grad
school.
It's just heroic what they do.
- Yeah, it's amazing when software
continues to live like that, right?
- Yeah.
- It's foundational software to the ecosystem.
And yeah, there's very little greenfield development there.
And there's very little sort of exciting work
that sort of, it's all complicated problems
with lots of complexity to deal with,
both in terms of compatibility as well.
Oh, not having enough visibility
into how your users are using things
to know for sure if a change will break them.
Basically everything is a breaking change.
Let's operate with that
and the constraints that brings with it.
- Yeah, that's a big constraint for sure.
Wow.
Cool, all right.
So let's talk about look and feel.
So there's the whole idea of Sphinx themes, right?
- Yeah.
- And maintained by some people we know here?
- Yes, that is my user.
- Kajjan, you wanna give a quick shout out to the themes
and tell us a bit about it?
- Sure, so one of the things that Sphinx has,
as we've mentioned multiple times,
is a bunch of variety of outputs, right?
And even within those, even within the HTML output format,
you have the ability to change how your output stylized,
right, what theme you end up using.
This is roughly analogous to, I guess,
Jekyll themes or Hugo themes,
in that you give it a bunch of templates,
maybe a bit of logic, depending on what you're doing,
and yeah, it renders.
Sphinx has that, and what's probably on screen
the moment as we've talking about this is sphinxthemes.org,
which is one of the sites I helped update
to be more pretty and more up-to-date
and sort of a more curated set of, well,
themes for Sphinx that you can and maybe should be using
when you move away from the defaults, essentially.
As Chris mentioned, Sphinx is fairly old.
And when you look at the themes that ship with it,
they bear that aesthetic with them.
They don't look like they were built last week
by someone who has been doing this since not too long.
So yeah, Wayback Machine would be a good--
- If you ever go to the Wayback Machine
and you look at something that is a popular website
from the early days, you know--
- Yeah, I think 2004 is right around the time, yeah.
It's an amazing experience to just pull up Google or Yahoo.
I mean, to look at something like this and say,
yeah, that's one of the biggest companies in the world.
Kind of reframe your opinion.
But having these themes, I think,
is an important aspect.
I do think having them look really good
is something that, you know,
is these are starting to come along, right?
Like I think the furrow theme
and the book theme look really nice.
There's the Pydata theme.
If you've done read the docs, right?
Read the docs is one of the themes
that people I'm sure are familiar with.
- I think for a very long time,
the only major good theme,
or one of the two major good themes
was the read the docs theme.
The other one being Alabaster,
which is not a default.
Alabaster is not the default.
And I think it's been fairly recent
that these new themes have sort of come in
and gained major adoption in sort of the timeline of Sphinx,
I would say.
And I think that's a good thing,
'cause, well, I am personally motivated
to do a lot of this, right?
Like one of the themes you mentioned
is one that I wrote from scratch.
And it's been an interestingly fun experience
and I can see why there's not a lot of these.
- It's tricky, huh?
- It is tricky.
- I really would like to give you credit for this.
I think Furo is the tipping point,
the exemplar that made people rethink
what to expect from Sphinx themes.
If I was to guess the two reasons people
are switching to MakeDocs, number one is Markdown.
So Chris and Chris, thank you for that.
And number two is it just looks a lot better.
- To be honest though, part of the reason Markdown
or MKDocs looks really good is because there's one theme
that's really good there, MKDocs material.
- Yeah, the material, yeah.
- That's all it takes.
- And I have not, and I've spent a decent amount
of time looking as part of research
for all of this work that I'm doing.
Is there any other major theme there?
And there isn't, there's just one.
And most of the ecology there just revolves around that.
That isn't to say that thing, certainly not.
And that isn't to say MKDOX is just that, it's not, right?
But a decent amount of the overlap there is,
well, the overlap there is huge, is what I would go for.
And kudos to Squid Funk,
whose name is not coming to my head at the moment
for the amount of work he's put into that.
- Yeah, absolutely.
You and Chris are working on the new chapter
of this idea, right?
- Which Chris?
- Chris H.
I believe the two of you are kind of thinking about
what if we didn't have to live with the old contract?
Well, I guess the, I think the way you're referring to is some of the like infrastructure
improvements around developing in the Sphinx ecosystem.
No, I was thinking of there's a, I thought there was a theme itself you were working
on that kind of threw out the basic theme, which is the predecessor of all themes.
And I thought that you had a repo where there was a new theme you were working on.
There is, there's something called...
Almost like an abstract theme or something.
- Yeah, so the way Sphinx's theme ecosystem works
is there's a basic theme.
And what that basic theme has is like
the JavaScript for Sphinx's search
and all kinds of like fundamental things for Sphinx
and a very, very, very bare bones HTML structure,
essentially, I don't think any CSS even, right?
So it's just a very bare bones page
to just serve as a basic skeleton for you to build upon.
And I think through the work that Chris and I
have been doing on themes and among there's more people
and that sort of the name escapes me at the moment.
And one of the things we found out was,
oh, there's like a lot of common work across these themes
And we put into a layer on top of that and build those things there.
So that it reduces the amount of duplicated work.
It still gives us the bits of flexibility that we want in the individual teams to make
opinionated choices, design choices and whatnot.
But there's a decent chunk of, oh, we all will do the same thing.
Like breadcrumbs have this HTML structure.
like, that doing things like that will reduce the amount of duplicated effort and lower
the barrier for entry, essentially, into writing things, which is sort of what I'm personally
motivated in at the moment, having written one, is like, "Oh, this thing is the right
sort of brain areas," because I, as I've mentioned, I'm a maintainer on pip. Developer workflows
are a thing that I happen to be interested in.
And I would say have a decent amount
of experience dealing with.
So I was like, hey, this looks like a great place
to put in a bunch of my JavaScript, HTML, Web Tech
experience combined with a bunch of Python packaging
and user workflows around that
and sort of put in energy there.
So that led to Fink's Theme Builder, which is like--
- Fantastic, yeah.
- Yeah, it's been excellent.
I think it's kind of just bringing in that,
maybe what Sphinx has lacked in the past
is that kind of expertise in web design, really.
I mean, there's a lot of excellent people working,
as you say, within Sphinx and DocuTools and things
on the kind of back end and how that works
and all the Python code.
Possibly there's been less so in the past of going,
Right, let's actually make all this good work
and actually show it off and have these just lovely themes
that actually show what you can do with it.
- It was super fascinating for me
'cause sort of when I jumped in,
I was like, oh, recreationally, right?
And to be honest, my motivation jumping
into the Sphinx ecosystem was precisely this,
of like, I want it to look better.
- Yeah. - Like,
it doesn't look good.
I would like it to look better.
And funnily enough, none of this would have happened
if pip hadn't gotten a grant,
where we had a bunch of computer experience experts
sit with us and our users
and sort of have that channel of feedback through them,
as well as their expertise,
and just having them state multiple times,
like, "Hey, pip's documentation's not that great
to sort of navigate and stuff."
Like, there's content, they don't know how to get there.
And sort of in those conversations, I was like,
yeah, I don't like this site.
Now that you've made me look at it a bunch of times.
(laughing)
- Yeah, let me put something on the screen for you all,
just to put side by side here.
And just think about this,
and y'all can pull this up really easily who are listening.
Just think about this from the perspective
of someone who's choosing a programming language
or new to programming and deciding,
is Python the space for me?
you know, if on one hand, we've got, you know, just the docs.python.org and the other, you
know, something like Tailwind, where you look at it and it's just like, it just feels, you
know, so fresh and welcoming.
Whereas the other, it's, this is not to take away from the hard and important work of writing
the documentation, but the way it feels when you land there, I think is in desperate need
of...
- I've seen what it looks like in a man page.
- I know it probably is looking the same, right?
- Those three man page users are really happy about this.
- Pretty close.
And that isn't to say those users aren't important
to be clear, right?
- I mean, it's kind of like moving
from MySpace to Instagram.
- It is, it is.
Like I said, I'm not bashing on it.
I'm just saying, this is the face
that that part of Python is presenting to the world
to say, we want you here, come be with us, right?
And there's a different face that other places
are putting on that I think probably will appeal
a lot more to people who don't know better
that they're getting to write in JavaScript.
- And this is really an aspect that I would sort of think,
I would like to put my energy into this
and make these improvements.
And I'm by far not the only one.
there's in fact now a documentation working group
being formed in the CPython core developed,
like CPython development community,
the folks who develop the language around improving this.
And there's like a public issue tracker
that hopefully gonna sort of start ramping up soon
'cause I would like to be involved with that
and I'm aware that Paul is as well.
And yeah, this is by no means news to the folks involved.
They're aware of this.
And I think the first issue itself
in the sort of Docs community issue tracker that they have
is moving to a more modern documentation theme.
It's just, as it turns out, there aren't many in Sphinx.
So that's sort of been another thing I've picked up.
- Yeah, so maybe one more shout out
to the Sphinx theme builder that you put together, right?
- Yeah, and I guess, yeah,
Sphinx theme builder comes in nicely into this.
So there's a bunch of Sphinx themes today, right?
There's Furo, there's Sphinx book theme,
there's PyData Sphinx theme, there's Alabaster,
there's a bazillion of those.
The first three that I mentioned, right,
are the folks on this discussion are involved with those.
And one of the things that came out of having worked on all of these was,
it would be nicer to simplify these workflows a bit,
make the interaction with JavaScript easier,
reduce the amount of bootstrapping required and stuff like that.
And that essentially ended up in Sphinx Team Builder,
where it sort of streamlines the JavaScript and Python build processes
and sort of makes the development workflow easier.
- Yeah, even comes with a development server
that does like refresh the browser on change, right?
- Yes, and I think that's also really nice
to have in Sphinx documentation authoring as well.
And Paul sort of mentioned this earlier
of like me taking up maintainership of too many things.
I went, I like this.
And the repository had maintainers needed on it.
So I just went and opened an issue and said, hi, add me.
And I'm more basically a de facto maintainer
on like live reload as well as Sphinx auto build,
which is, hi, if you don't use Sphinx auto build
and write a lot of Sphinx docs,
start using it 'cause it's great, I think.
- Yeah, awesome.
Yeah, I love those auto reload aspects.
- Yeah.
- All right, you guys, we are just about out of time.
Maybe I'll open it up for if anyone else
wants to just give a shout out to something
or mention something while we're all here together.
What have we not covered that we need to quickly talk about?
- I mean, the main thing that I would just say
is to reiterate that I think that what a lot of these,
like the theme conversations and improving developer
workflows around the Sphinx ecosystem,
one of the reasons that they're so successful
is because I think that there is a lot of low-hanging fruit
in the Sphinx ecosystem to basically like signal boost
all of this work that's been done
over the last 14 years in Docutales and Sphinx
and building this documentation engine
and this whole community of people
writing extensions for it.
In a lot of ways, I think that there's a lot
of potential energy there that hasn't been unlocked yet,
in part because of some of the things
around developer friction or themes that don't look
kind of like modern and nice and web-developy.
And I think that there's still a lot more low-hanging fruit
that can be accomplished with, for example,
improving documentation about Sphinx itself
or the extensions or whatever.
And so I think that all of the success of these projects
is largely possible only because they're kind of piggybacking
on top of this really well-established community
where a lot of work has already been done
and a lot of kudos go out to that broader community.
- For sure.
And one other thing that I'm sort of hoping to see
coming out of this is as sort of these efforts
around making it easy to present your theme nicer,
making it easier to write your docs and all of these happen,
the general quality of the documentation in the Python
ecosystem improves.
Because when you have something that looks nicer,
that is easier to write, that's all of that,
it also results in a better quality of documentation.
Where because you're able to go, oh, actually, I
can see the structure of my site more clearly.
I think I would like to restructure it slightly
to make it clearer what the flow is.
and, oh, I'm missing this bit of content in this section,
but I have it there.
Maybe I should just edit it.
And when these things become more obvious to you,
through either clearer markup or clearer site design
or whatever, it will lead to better documentation.
And also you'll have more people
who'd be willing to write those.
'Cause it won't be like, oh, why am I writing this?
- Yeah, and also moving away from Sphinx
just being seen as a developer documentation tool
into what JupyterBook is trying to do,
make it available for scientists and things to go,
"Oh, wait a minute, I can use this relatively easily,
and I can share my work,
or I can write tutorials on science,
or share my research and things like stuff like that."
- That part's really interesting to me,
and it's why I did the course with Michael
on static websites, not static documentation,
is to think bigger than just docs.
I have an interest in knowledge bases.
I'm a developer advocate.
We create artifacts that are rich and interconnected
and richly linked.
Sound like something?
- No.
- Sphinx has inside of it, this engine,
Sphinx and Docutils has this engine inside
which nothing else has.
The very first contact you have with the Mist
in the course that I did is just the humble link.
But when you do it in Mist,
it will tell you if the thing on the other side isn't there.
It'll extract the title and inline it on your side.
That is magic to all these other systems.
And it's knowledge-based kinds of things that are valuable.
And I think that we could tell the story of Sphinx
in a bigger way beyond documentation
and start doing all of the things
that people on technical teams want to do for storytelling.
- I feel like I want to interject and mention that,
hey, you know, Sphinx can do blogs.
- Yes, there's the A-blog extension, yeah.
- Yep, and Chris H., at least, has his blog on--
- Yeah, that's right.
- His personal website, as far as I'm aware.
- When you look inside the code of A-Blog,
which I've followed for years,
it shows you tapping into the equivalent of Front Matter
and walking through all the Doctries
and looking for structure and doing back references.
People don't expect to be able to do that in Markdown.
It's a document database.
That's what you should think of Sphinx as.
- And I think there's a lot there of like unlocking,
like I really do want to reiterate what Chris said
of like, there's a huge body of excellent work
that has been done over more than a decade.
Well, I mentioned older than me,
it's like four years younger or something like that.
I'm four years older than it.
Okay, whatever, I was wrong there, whatever.
But yeah, there's this huge body of work there
and there's just, it sort of needs the little touch of,
hey, paint, get it to like, look like it belongs
in the sort of model and web, right?
- But it also needed myths.
It needed myths to come along and express that power
in a human-oriented way.
And there are so many things in myths that are mind blowing.
people haven't scratched the surface with Mist yet.
- I actually, to that point,
one other quick plug that I would give is,
I know we've been talking about Sphinx in this conversation,
but to reiterate, I think that the goal of Mist
is to be a tool or implementation agnostic specification
for Markdown.
And I think that there's a lot of exciting possibilities
if we can sort of find the right standards to apply
at the MIST directives level or roles level or whatever,
and to see if you could get a flavor of Markdown
that is flexible enough that it can be reused
across like a few different kinds of applications,
maybe some are pure web page,
maybe some that are full-blown documentation,
maybe Pandoc, whatever.
And so I invite people who,
if they can think of use cases or tools
that they're working on or ecosystems that they're working in
that would benefit from something like a sort of tool
agnostic flavor of Markdown that has natural block
and inline level extension points,
then reach out and we would love to chat
because I think it would be really cool
to see Mist being applied in other kinds of contexts as well.
- Yeah, it would just help it grow, get stronger.
- Yeah, I guess on a similar sort of call to action sense,
I think if there's anyone around and listening
who has sort of JavaScript and web design jobs
and sort of finds all of this interesting
and wants to sort of contribute
to making things look prettier, like reach out.
Like do honestly any of us on this call.
And yeah, we'd really like to have more people on board
not least because it's good to have fun collaborators
to collaborate with as Chris and Chris have been,
but also because I think the ecosystem could use a bunch.
I think Spinks itself, and even DocuTools,
like the maintainership story on those
and the work that those maintainers do is,
well, the maintainership story is,
let's leave it at interesting,
and the work that the maintainers do is really amazing
for the amount of resources that they have.
So.
- Yeah, fantastic.
- Good call to action, let's leave it there.
Let me ask you all one of the two final questions
I typically ask before we get out of here.
Reginald, I'll start with you.
If you're gonna write some Python code,
what editor are you using these days?
- I am using Visual Studio Code.
Used to use Sublime Text, but I've sort of switched over.
- Yeah, I feel like that's the natural transition
for Sublime users, that seems to be what it is.
I'm wondering which one you might be using.
No, I love PyJarm as well.
The best, baby, the best.
Absolutely. Right on.
Chris, see you all.
Mainly Visual Studio Code, I'm afraid.
Right. Is there, I suspect, probably some notebooks in there as well.
Sorry, what'd you say?
There's probably some notebooks in there as well.
Like some Jupyter.
- Partly JupyterLab, but mainly Visual Studio Code.
And there's also this extension for Visual Studio Code,
and we're working on the extension for JupyterLab as well.
- Oh, fantastic.
All right, cool.
Chris, H?
- I kind of split 50/50 VS Code and JupyterLab.
Basically, if I'm doing software development,
then I do VS Code, and if I do data exploration,
interactive computing, that kind of workload,
I use JupyterLab. - On the notebooks.
Right on.
Well, thank you all for being here.
It's been really fun.
And thank you for all the hard work
on bringing all this stuff up to 2020.
- Wait, you have two questions.
- I do.
I know, all right, really quick then,
notable PyPI package.
And so I don't want to take too much of your time.
- Okay, I guess for me, it'll be Pursuit Fiber, PPB.
It's really cool educational game engine
that's way better than what I had
when I got started with PyPI.
I just finished doing the Python Bytes podcast with Brian
before we started this one.
And ESA, the European Space Agency,
just put two Raspberry Pis on the International Space
Station for kids and students to program against.
I'm like, that's way better than the turtle I
got to drive around when I was in school.
All right, Paul, really quick, what's
a package or library you want to just give a quick shout out
to?
I have a fascination with dependency injection
in a human oriented way, antidote.
- Antidote, okay, very interesting.
That's new to me.
Chris S.
Got a library you wanna give a quick shout out to?
- So is that Chris S?
- Yes, it was Chris S.
(all laughing)
- PipX.
I hadn't used it until recently.
And yeah, I love it, yeah.
- I'm all for that.
You know, people talk about how it's hard
to distribute Python applications
and little utilities by packaging them up
'cause well, you gotta download the scripts
and then set up the environment.
That is the homebrew of the Python world.
If you want something that I can go to the terminal
and just type a command and it runs,
well, if you pipx install it,
it's gonna just be there and it's fantastic.
I love it.
People that should use it more for that use case.
- Yeah, yeah, it's been excellent.
And also with all the work that's been going on in pip,
flip for packaging.
- All right, right on.
- I feel like in the name of improving UI, UX
and window dressing on technology
that some people think is outdated,
I would shout out to Rich.
The sort of like UI components, visualizations, whatever.
I would love to find a way to get Rich into Jupyter book
or even Sphinx or something like that.
'Cause I think it makes for a really nice user experience.
The only problem is that the maintainer of Rich
is much better at Wordle than I am.
And so he's like consistently beating me
by two or three tries.
- Every day.
(laughing)
- 'Cause this seems relevant.
One of the things I've been doing through work
as well as personal time is improving error messages in Pip
And Rich has played a decent--
- Oh.
- Oh, yeah.
- Fantastic.
- So it's pretty likely that in the coming release or two,
you'll see better error messages,
partly thanks to Will's work on Rich.
- Yeah, absolutely.
He's got the whole trace back enhancements and everything.
All right, thank you all for being here.
It's been great.
Chat with you later.